♪♪♪
>> Stephen: HEY, EVERYBODY!
WE'RE BACK WITH THE AUTHOR OF
"HOW TO AVOID A CLIMATE
DISASTER," BILL GATES.
GOVERNOR ABBOTT DOWN IN TEXAS
SAYS THEIR PROBLEM WAS GREEN
ENERGY DOWN IN TEXAS.
THAT'S WHY THEY DIDN'T HAVE
POWER, SO THE WATER SYSTEM SHUT
DOWN AND THE HEATERS SHUT DOWN
AND THE PIPES BURST.
WHAT'S YOUR RESPONSE TO SOMEONE
WHO WANTS TO BLAME GREEN ENERGY
FOR THERE LATEST CRISIS?
>> WELL, THE PROBLEM WAS THEY
DIDN'T WEATHERIZE ANY OF THEIR
POWER SOURCES, SO NATURAL GAS
SHUT DOWN, AND THAT WAS THE
BIGGEST THING.
THE WIND SHUTTING DOWN WAS A
VERY SMALL PERCENTAGE, AND THAT
WAS JUST BECAUSE THEY HAVEN'T
WEATHERIZED IT.
EVEN NORTH DAKOTA HAS WIND THAT
WORKS AT COLD TEMPERATURES.
THERE ARE TWO REALLY VALID
POINTS HERE, THOUGH, WHICH IS
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE MORE OF
THESE CRAZY WEATHER EVENTS, EVEN
COLD ONES LIKE THAT, BECAUSE OF
CLIMATE CHANGE, AND, AS WE MAKE
THE GRID CLEAN, IT IS -- IT WILL
BE A CHALLENGE TO KEEP IT
RELIABLE BECAUSE YOU CAN HAVE
LOTS OF CASES WHERE THERE'S NOT
MUCH SUN OR WIND, SO WE HAVE TO
INNOVATE TO BE ABLE TO STORE
ENERGY OR USE A
WEATHER-INDEPENDENT GREEN SOURCE
LIKE NUCLEAR.
>> Stephen: OKAY.
WELL, I MEAN, PEOPLE LOOK AT
NUCLEAR A LITTLE ASKANCE, AND
I'M SURE YOU CAN UNDERSTAND WHY.
THERE HAVE BEEN NUCLEAR
ACCIDENTS.
I'M NOT SURE IF YOU SAW H.B.O.'S
SHEERS CHERNOBYL, BUT IT WAS A
BIT CHILLING, ABOUT THE
POSSIBILITY THERE WOULD BE A
LARGE HUNK OF EASTERN EUROPE
WOULD NOT BE INHABITABLE FOR
SEVERAL THOUSAND YEARS.
IS IT POSSIBLE TO DO NUCLEAR
POWER SAFELY?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
WE NEED A NEW DESIGN.
THE RECORD, DESPITE CHERNOBYL,
DESPITE WHAT COAL HAS DONE TO
PEOPLE'S HEALTH AND COAL MINUS
AND NATURAL GAS PIPELINES
BLOWING UP, IT'S QUITE GOOD, BUT
IT'S NOT GOOD ENOUGH.
SO WE NEED TO START FROM SCRATCH
AND HAVE A REACTOR THAT THE
OPERATES CAN NEVER MESS UP, THAT
NO MATTER WHAT, THE RADIOACTIVE
STUFF STAYS ON SITE, AND I'M
INVOLVED IN A COMPANY THAT JUST
GOT A U.S. GOVERNMENT CONTRACT
TO PROVE THAT THERE'S THIS NEW
SUPER SAFE GENERATION.
>> Stephen: UM, NOT TO PUSH
BACK AGAINST SOMEONE WHO KNOWS
MORE ABOUT THIS THAN I DO, BUT
ISN'T THE DANGER WITH NUCLEAR
REACTORS NOT SO MUCH THAT OTHER
FORMS OF ENERGY DON'T KILL
PEOPLE IN THE LONG RUN, BUT THAT
A LARGE CHUNK OF THE PLANET
DOESN'T BECOME UNINHABITABLE AS
A RESULT OF AN ACCIDENT WHEN
NUCLEAR RADIATION IS SPREAD LIKE
A POISONOUS SAUCE OVER UKRAINE?
>> NO, THE CHERNOBYL WAS A HUGE
DISASTER, AND, YOU KNOW, THE
RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL SPREAD OUT
OF THE REACTOR, AND, YOU KNOW,
PEOPLE HAD TO LEAVE THAT AREA.
AND, YOU KNOW, YOU HAVE TO KEEP
THE STUFF IN THE REACTOR.
IT IS, YOU KNOW -- IT -- THE
HISTORY IS CLEAR, BUT, GOING
FORWARD, PEOPLE SHOULD JUST HAVE
AN OPEN MIND BECAUSE YOU WANT A
GREEN SOURCE OF ENERGY THAT'S
NOT WEATHER DEPENDENT, AND
NUCLEAR IS THE ONLY THING THAT
HAS A CHANCE OF SCALING THAT
WELL, AND, YOU KNOW, I'M AMAZED
AT THE BRILLIANT THINGS PEOPLE
HAVE COME UP WITH TO BE ABLE TO
GUARANTEE THIS, AND NOW WE CAN
SIMULATE ALL THE BAD THINGS THAT
MGHT HAPPEN TO MAKE SURE WE'RE
ROBUST.
>> Stephen: AT 65 YEARS OLD,
DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING YOU WANT TO
SAY TO THIS GUY FROM 37 YEARS
AGO?
YOU SEE THIS FELLOW RIGHT HERE?
>> YEAH, HE WAS A MAD MAN.
HE WORKED ALL THE TIME.
HE DIDN'T THINK OLD PEOPLE HAD
ANY GOOD IDEAS, SO I WOULD TELL
THEM TO MELLOW ON THAT ONE.
( LAUGHTER )
>> Stephen: ARE THERE ANY
THINGS YOU WOULD SAY LIKE, DON'T
DO THAT, DON'T PURSUE THAT
PROJECT?
IS THERE ANYTHING YOU WOULD WAVE
HIM OFF.
>> BE NICE TO THE GOVERNMENT.
>> Stephen: BE NICE TO THE
GOVERNMENT?
WHY?
WAS THIS GUY JUST A LITTLE CREEP
TO THE GOVERNMENT?
>> NO, NO, HE EVENTUALLY GOT
INTO AN ANTITRUST TRIAL.
>> Stephen: OH, THAT'S RIGHT.
THAT'S RIGHT.
AND WAS HE RIGHT OR WRONG FOR
DEFENDING HIS ACTIONS?
>> UH, I'M TOO BIASED TO ANSWER
THAT QUESTION.
>> Stephen: YOU'RE IMMINENTLY
FAIR TO YOURSELF.
( LAUGHTER )
WELL, BILL, THANK YOU SO MUCH
FOR BEING HERE.
>> WELL, THANKS.
GREAT TO TALK TO YOU.
>> Stephen: I WAS WAITING FOR
A THANKS BACK.
THAT'S ALL.
CAN'T BELIEVE HOW HARD I HAD TO
FISH FOR THAT ONE.
( LAUGHTER )
HOW DO AVOID A CLIMATE DISASTER
IS AVAILABLE NOW.
BILL GATES, EVERYBODY.
WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK WITH A
PERFORMANCE BY "TUNE-YARDS."
♪♪♪